## News
**Release 3.12 -- 2022-11-07**

We are pleased to announce the release of Copilot 3.12, a stream-based DSL for
writing and monitoring embedded C programs, with an emphasis on correctness and
hard realtime requirements. Copilot is typically used as a high-level runtime
verification framework, and supports temporal logic (LTL, PTLTL and MTL),
clocks and voting algorithms.

Among others, Copilot has been used at the Safety Critical Avionics Systems
Branch of NASA Langley Research Center for monitoring test flights of drones.

The main changes in this release are as follows:

- A new library `copilot-prettyprinter` exposes functions related to the
  Copilot Core pretty-printing backend. Pre-existing functions included as
  part of `copilot-core` are now deprecated.
- The C99 backend now produces an additional header file with struct
  declarations. This file is used by the C implementation file generated by
  Copilot to define structs before the declarations of the handlers, avoiding
  potential forward declarations that the C compiler cannot resolve. Users of
  Copilot can choose to import the same new type declaration header file before
  the standard Copilot header file in their hand-written code, or use external
  definitions that declare compatible structs. Note that, in the former case,
  the header file that declares the structs must be included *before* the
  header file that declares the externs, handlers and step function.
- The custom type equality module in `copilot-core` is now deprecated in favor
  of the definition of type equality in `base`.
- `copilot-theorem` now includes support for proofs by bisimulation necessary
  for future extensions to Copilot.
- `copilot-core` now complies with the coding rules established as part of the
  process of compliance with NASA's Class D requirements (NPR 7150.2).

This release also continues to use our new software engineering process
designed to meet the requirements to obtain NASA's Class D software
classification. Details are available
[here](https://github.com/Copilot-Language/copilot/milestone/16?closed=1).

Current emphasis is on improving the codebase in terms of stability and test
coverage, removing unnecessary dependencies, hiding internal definitions, and
formatting the code to meet our new coding standards. Users are encouraged to
participate by opening issues and asking questions via our [github
repo](https://github.com/copilot-language/copilot).

## Licence
Copilot is distributed under the BSD-3-Clause licence, which can be found
[here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Copilot-Language/Copilot/master/LICENSE).

## Acknowledgements
We are grateful for NASA Contract NNL08AD13T to Galois, Inc. and the National
Institute of Aerospace, which partially supported this work.

Additionally NASA Langley contracts 80LARC17C0004 and NNL09AA00A supported
further development of Copilot.

We would like to thank Kaveh Darafsheh (NASA Langley Research Center) for his
help with testing Copilot. In addition numerous people have helped with smaller
things, reporting bugs etc. Thanks to all of them!
